Welcome back! Having
looked at how to deploy
applications in OpenShift as such,
so without any additional tools or help,
let's have a look at how that
changes when we're using Quarkus.
Quarkus has an OpenShift extension,
which is actually built on top of
the Kubernetes Quarkus extension.
So it shares a lot of functionality,
and configuration properties with it.
And simply if you want to
deploy applications to OpenShift
just add the extension
using mvn quarkus:
add-extension
-Dextension equals openshift
or you can also add it
manually in your pom.xml.
Then when you're building the application,
so when you're packaging the application
with the mvn package goal is simply
set -Dquarkus.kubernetes.deploy equals true.
And that will, after the
package has been built,
use your existing credentials,
so existing session that you've
established with OpenShift,
the existing project
which you're currently
using and generate all the resources,
start a binary source image
build and deploy the application in OPenShift.
As we said, it's opinionated,
so for the most part,
the default should be working fine.
But let's have a look at how we
can influence those settings in,
well, what we want.
As we said, you have to have logged in
to OpenShift to be able
to deploy applications.
There is no way to specify OpenShift
credentials and have the Quarkus
OpenShift extension login for you,
it's just using whatever
you're currently using.
So it's important to check
that before building,
lest you want to deploy
applications to some random cluster.
The way the OpenShift
extension works is that it
generates the resource files in the
target directory of your project
in the Kubernetes subdirectory.
The kubernetes.yaml and
openshift.yaml files
and of course their JSON equivalent.
Now the extension reuses
your existing session
and then after the
package phase is completed,
sends those generated resources
to the control plane in order
to deploy or even build a new image
and then deploy your application.
The most common configuration option
that you will want to use when
deploying to OpenShift is the quarkus.openshift. expose equals true.
It doesn't do anything for Kubernetes
but for OpenShift, which
supports Ingress routes
it actually creates an ingress route for
your newly deployed application
or updates the existing one
of course, if that one already existed,
in order for you to be able to access
the application from outside the cluster.
If you want to specifically set the
name of your generated resources,
such as the deployment, the service,
the route and any other resources,
you can use quarkus.openshift.name property
and set it to whatever you
want to name the application.
By default it's going to be
the project artifact ID.
However, if you want to rename
it, here's a way to do it.
If you need to set any
labels on your resources,
you can also use
quarkus.openshift.labels property,
where anything after
labels becomes the key
and then anything after the equal
sign becomes the value of that label.
If you want to set some environment
variables in your deployment,
you can use quarkus.openshift.env property.
Now, env has several subsections,
so if you just want to set
a statically hard-coded
variable into your deployment,
you use the vars suffix
and then specify
the variable name and specify
the value that it should be
set to after the equal sign.
Of course, if it's sensitive data that
you're setting in your deployment,
then it's recommended to rather
use a ConfigMap and a Secret,
well, especially Secret
for sensitive data.
But even so it's better to use ConfigMaps and
Secrets rather than hard code
values into your deployments
and that is actually possible
using a different suffix.
So it's going to be quarkus.
openshift.env this time as well.
But instead of vars it's
going to be ConfigMaps
and then a list, comma separated list
of ConfigMaps that you want to take
all the keys from and set
the environment variable
values based on the key names.
There will be uppercase,
any dashes will be
replaced with underscores
and the values of those keys in
ConfigMaps will become the values
of the environment variables
and it's the same with secrets.
So if you want to map a secret or secret
content to environment variables,
then use quarkus.openshift.env.secrets and specify again
a comma separated list of
secrets that you want
to map into the environment variables.
If you want to map specific keys,
so just a subset or even rename
the keys in flight as you're
mapping them from ConfigMaps and
Secrets in to environment variables,
then you can use the,
again quarkus.openshift.env
but .mapping subsection where you specify
the name of the environment variable,
your setting, and then the source,
which can be either from
configmap or from secret
and the key that contains
the value that you want to set
in the environment variables.
So that would be with key in both cases
of course. If you want to influence
how the image build is going
to happen inside OpenShift,
of course, we are not talking about local
container image builds, we are talking
about building the image inside
the OpenShift Container Platform.
Again, by default, the
image will get the name.
So the image stream
actually get the name of
the artifact ID that you're
configuring in your pom.xml
and the tag is just going
to be latest. So image stream
tag is going to be artifact ID colon latest.
If you want to configure the
image name in some other format,
then you can use quarkus.
container-image.group,
which is going to be the namespace,
but the image is placed in, then
quarkus.container-image.name,
which is going to be the base name of
the image and quarkus.container-image.tag,
which becomes the tags.
So with these 3 lines,
we get the image name of com.
myorganization/quarkus-app:1.0.
You can set that on the command line
or in the application properties
and the same goes for all the previous
options that we've discussed.
So, it doesn't really
matter where you set them,
they will be picked up by
the OpenShift extension
and used. If you want to
and that is probably the
most common modification
that you will perform during builds.
If you want to pick
a specific base image for your
application to be built on top of,
then you can use quarkus.s2i.base-jvm-image.
So for example, if you wanted to
use the UBI based OpenJDK image,
you would set that property to
registry.access.redhat.com
/ubi8/openjdk-11 and an optional tag,
of course, afterwards, if you want
to use just a specific build,
otherwise, the tag as
usual defaults to latest.
All the Quarkus builds that produce
container images in OpenShift are to be
considered binary source to image builds,
which is different from
your usual source image
build where the source code is actually
cloned from a Git repository into
a container inside OpenShift
and then the source-to-image assemble
process builds the packages,
the artifacts, the JAR files
that you need to build
and commits them into a
new application image.
So this is by far the safest way to
build container images because
the Java Virtual Machine,
the Java compiler, the execution
environment of the build,
are the very same as they are going to
be in your application once it's deployed.
Binary source image builds are a bit
riskier because they
depend on the fact that
the Java virtual machine and the
compiler version that you're
using on your workstation,
match the target image.
You do not want to have a class format
error when you deploy or when you
try to run your application
simply because you use
Java 17 on your workstation
and the build, the image
that the application has
been deployed to, is using Java 11, right?
So be careful about that,
it's actually recommended to only use
this process in development
and in early testing.
And then switch to fully blown source-to-image builds for further stages.
If you want to build a
container image locally on
your system then test it in Podman
or ship it somewhere where
it's going to be deployed like
Kubernetes. Then you can use
quarkus.container-image.build
option and set it to true.
But for that to happen,
you need to configure a specific
container image extension.
There is a document on quarkus.io,
make sure you're looking at the correct
version, our version is 1.11.
That's a Red Hat build of
Quarkus long-term support.
Even though there are
newer versions of Quarkus,
they will be included
in long-term support,
eventually, for now we're using 1.11.
So the Quarkus container image
extensions are Jib, Docker and
S2I.
Jib is probably the most
platform independent because it's
using a Google program called Jib
that is written completely in Java,
does not need any container runtime at all
and performs the entire
image build in a JVM.
So you simply add the extension using
the standard quarkus:add-extension.
The extension name is
container-image-jib.
There are number of options for jib to configure
the actual image build, of which
probably the most important
is where to push the resulting
image because jib does not
depend on an existing container runtime
on the machine where
you're building the image.
It has to store the image somewhere,
but it cannot store it in
a Docker image repository.
It cannot store it in a
Podman image repository.
It has push it into some
sort of a registry
and for that quarkus.container-image.push
configuration value must be set to
some sort of a registry
where you have access.
If you're using the Docker
extension, then of course,
Quarkus expects to have a
local Docker daemon running,
or at least they have the
Docker client configured to be
able to talk to some remote
instance of a Docker daemon.
If you're using the S2I extension,
then you will also have to have the OpenShift
extension added and of course,
an existing OpenShift session
running because that actually
uses OpenShift source-to-image binary
build as we just discussed previously,
to actually create a build config
in some image streams to
store the image into.
There is an alternative
approach which you can
use if you want to build container images,
which is called JKube.
It is a standalone Maven extension,
so it's a generic plug-in
from Maven, you can use with
Quarkus applications and then target
any sort of cloud environment,
such as a Kubernetes or
an OpenShift system.
You can use JKube to deploy Quarkus
applications, once they've been packaged.
Of course, you can use them to deploy.
You can use it to deploy
them to OpenShift as well.
But you do loose
the extra capacities of,
for example, configuring deployments,
fine tuning them and so on using
the OpenShift Quarkus extension.
Now let's have a look at how to deploy
Quarkus applications to OpenShift,
in the next exercise.